docs/reference/providers/terraform.md, before:

---
title: "`terraform` Provider"
tocTitle: "`terraform`"
---

# `terraform` Provider

## Description

This provider allows you to integrate Terraform stacks into your Garden project.
See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/advanced/terraform) for details and usage information.

Below is the full schema reference for the provider configuration. For an introduction to configuring a Garden project with providers, please look at our [configuration guide](../../guides/configuration-files.md).

The reference is divided into two sections. The [first section](#complete-yaml-schema) contains the complete YAML schema, and the [second section](#configuration-keys) describes each schema key.

## Complete YAML Schema

The values in the schema below are the default values.

```yaml
providers:
  - # The name of the provider plugin to use.
    name:

    # If specified, this provider will only be used in the listed environments. Note that an empty array effectively
    # disables the provider. To use a provider in all environments, omit this field.
    environments:

    # If set to true, Garden will automatically run `terraform apply -auto-approve` when a stack is not up-to-date.
    # Otherwise, a warning is logged if the stack is out-of-date, and an error thrown if it is missing entirely.
    autoApply: false

    # Specify the path to a Terraform config directory, that should be resolved when initializing the provider.
    # This is useful when other providers need to be able to reference the outputs from the stack.
    #
    # See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/advanced/terraform) for more information.
    initRoot:

    # A map of variables to use when applying Terraform stacks. You can define these here, in individual `terraform`
    # module configs, or you can place a `terraform.tfvars` file in each working directory.
    variables:

    # The version of Terraform to use.
    version: 0.12.7
```
## Configuration Keys

### `providers[]`

| Type            | Default | Required |
| --------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `array[object]` | `[]`    | No       |

### `providers[].name`

[providers](#providers) > name

The name of the provider plugin to use.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `string` | Yes      |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - name: "local-kubernetes"
```

### `providers[].environments[]`

[providers](#providers) > environments

If specified, this provider will only be used in the listed environments. Note that an empty array effectively disables the provider. To use a provider in all environments, omit this field.

| Type            | Required |
| --------------- | -------- |
| `array[string]` | No       |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - environments:
      - dev
      - stage
```

### `providers[].autoApply`

[providers](#providers) > autoApply

If set to true, Garden will automatically run `terraform apply -auto-approve` when a stack is not up-to-date. Otherwise, a warning is logged if the stack is out-of-date, and an error thrown if it is missing entirely.

| Type      | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------- | -------- |
| `boolean` | `false` | No       |

### `providers[].initRoot`

[providers](#providers) > initRoot

Specify the path to a Terraform config directory, that should be resolved when initializing the provider.
This is useful when other providers need to be able to reference the outputs from the stack.

See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/advanced/terraform) for more information.

| Type        | Required |
| ----------- | -------- |
| `posixPath` | No       |

### `providers[].variables`

[providers](#providers) > variables

A map of variables to use when applying Terraform stacks. You can define these here, in individual `terraform` module configs, or you can place a `terraform.tfvars` file in each working directory.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `object` | No       |

### `providers[].version`

[providers](#providers) > version

The version of Terraform to use.

| Type     | Default    | Required |
| -------- | ---------- | -------- |
| `string` | `"0.12.7"` | No       |

Commit message:

feat(terraform): add plugin commands for terraform apply and plan
This makes the terraform provider a little easier to work with
day-to-day. We also explicitly discourage use of `autoApply` now, except
for private environments. The status check is now also faster, because
we don't refresh the stack state every time.

This involved a few refactors, mainly to improve the plugin command
framework. I also needed to modify the provider resolution flow so that
individual providers can be resolved (otherwise it wouldn't be possible
to run the apply/plan commands if another provider depended on the
outputs).

docs/reference/providers/terraform.md, after:

---
title: "`terraform` Provider"
tocTitle: "`terraform`"
---

# `terraform` Provider

## Description

This provider allows you to integrate Terraform stacks into your Garden project. See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/advanced/terraform) for details and usage information.

Below is the full schema reference for the provider configuration. For an introduction to configuring a Garden project with providers, please look at our [configuration guide](../../guides/configuration-files.md).

The reference is divided into two sections. The [first section](#complete-yaml-schema) contains the complete YAML schema, and the [second section](#configuration-keys) describes each schema key.

## Complete YAML Schema

The values in the schema below are the default values.

```yaml
providers:
  - # The name of the provider plugin to use.
    name:

    # If specified, this provider will only be used in the listed environments. Note that an empty array effectively
    # disables the provider. To use a provider in all environments, omit this field.
    environments:

    # If set to true, Garden will automatically run `terraform apply -auto-approve` when a stack is not up-to-date.
    # Otherwise, a warning is logged if the stack is out-of-date, and an error thrown if it is missing entirely.
    #
    # **Note: This is not recommended for production, or shared environments in general!**
    autoApply: false

    # Specify the path to a Terraform config directory, that should be resolved when initializing the provider. This
    # is useful when other providers need to be able to reference the outputs from the stack.
    #
    # See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/advanced/terraform) for more information.
    initRoot:

    # A map of variables to use when applying Terraform stacks. You can define these here, in individual
    # `terraform` module configs, or you can place a `terraform.tfvars` file in each working directory.
    variables:

    # The version of Terraform to use.
    version: 0.12.21
```
## Configuration Keys

### `providers[]`

| Type            | Default | Required |
| --------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `array[object]` | `[]`    | No       |

### `providers[].name`

[providers](#providers) > name

The name of the provider plugin to use.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `string` | Yes      |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - name: "local-kubernetes"
```

### `providers[].environments[]`

[providers](#providers) > environments

If specified, this provider will only be used in the listed environments. Note that an empty array effectively disables the provider. To use a provider in all environments, omit this field.

| Type            | Required |
| --------------- | -------- |
| `array[string]` | No       |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - environments:
      - dev
      - stage
```

### `providers[].autoApply`

[providers](#providers) > autoApply

If set to true, Garden will automatically run `terraform apply -auto-approve` when a stack is not up-to-date. Otherwise, a warning is logged if the stack is out-of-date, and an error thrown if it is missing entirely.

**Note: This is not recommended for production, or shared environments in general!**

| Type      | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------- | -------- |
| `boolean` | `false` | No       |

### `providers[].initRoot`

[providers](#providers) > initRoot

Specify the path to a Terraform config directory, that should be resolved when initializing the provider. This is useful when other providers need to be able to reference the outputs from the stack.

See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/advanced/terraform) for more information.

| Type        | Required |
| ----------- | -------- |
| `posixPath` | No       |

### `providers[].variables`

[providers](#providers) > variables

A map of variables to use when applying Terraform stacks. You can define these here, in individual
`terraform` module configs, or you can place a `terraform.tfvars` file in each working directory.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `object` | No       |

### `providers[].version`

[providers](#providers) > version

The version of Terraform to use.

| Type     | Default     | Required |
| -------- | ----------- | -------- |
| `string` | `"0.12.21"` | No       |
